abide by: tuân thủ, tôn trọng:You must abide by the rules of the game.
account for: giải thích, chiếm:The bad weather accounts for the delay.
act for: đại diện cho (pháp lý), hành động vì: The lawyer acted for the client in court.
act on: hành động theo:The manager decided to act on the customer's feedback immediately.
act out on: phản ứng tiêu cực với: She acted out on her frustration by yelling.
act out: làm trò, diễn kịch:The children started to act out their favorite story.
act up: hư, không hoạt động tốt:My old car often acts up in cold weather.
add in: thêm vào:Don't forget to add in the salt when you cook.
add on: thêm vào (để tăng số lượng):They decided to add on an extra room to their house.
add up to: tổng cộng là, có ý nghĩa là:All their expenses add up to a large amount.
add up: cộng lại:Can you add up these numbers for me?
agree with: đồng ý với:I agree with your opinion on this matter.
allow for: tính đến, xem xét:We need to allow for possible delays when planning the trip.
allow of: cho phép (khả năng):The plan allows of no mistakes.
angle for: tìm cách đạt được: She’s angling for a promotion.
answer back: cãi lại:Don't answer back your parents.
answer for: chịu trách nhiệm: You’ll have to answer for your actions.
appeal to: kêu gọi, thu hút:This music appeals to a wide audience.
ask about: hỏi về:She always asks about your health.
ask after someone: hỏi thăm sức khỏe: He asked after your grandmother.
ask after: hỏi thăm:My mother asked after you yesterday.
ask around: hỏi nhiều người:I'll ask around to see if anyone has a spare ticket.
ask for it: tự chuốc lấy hậu quả: He was rude — he asked for it.
ask for: yêu cầu:He asked for a glass of water.
ask in: mời vào:It's cold outside, please ask them in.
ask out: mời đi chơi/hẹn hò:He finally gathered the courage to ask her out.
ask over: mời đến nhà:We should ask them over for dinner next week.
attend to: chú ý đến, chăm sóc:Please attend to your duties.
back away from: lùi lại khỏi: He backed away from the fight.
back away: lùi lại, rút lui, từ bỏ:The dog started to growl, so I backed away slowly.
back down: nhượng bộ, rút lui:He refused to back down from his demands.
back off from: rút lui khỏi: You should back off from this fight.
back off: lùi lại, bỏ đi:The police told the crowd to back off.
back out: rút lời, rút lui:She backed out of the deal at the last minute.
back up: ủng hộ, sao lưu:Can you back up my story? / Remember to back up your files.
bail on: rời bỏ, thất hứa: She bailed on me at the last minute.
bail out (of a situation): thoát khỏi tình huống khó khăn:He tried to bail out of the project when things got tough.
bail out on: bỏ rơi ai đó: He bailed out on his friends at the last minute.
bail out: giải cứu (tài chính), nhảy dù:The government had to bail out the failing company.
bang into: va vào: I banged into the door in the dark.
bang on about: nói mãi về điều gì: He kept banging on about politics.
bank on: dựa vào, trông cậy vào:You can bank on him to help you.
bank up: chất đống: Snow banked up at the sides of the road.
bargain for: mong đợi, mặc cả:It was more difficult than I had bargained for.
bargain on: trông cậy vào:We can't bargain on him helping us.
bargain with: mặc cả với:She refused to bargain with the seller.
barge in: xông vào bất ngờ: He barged in without knocking.
bash in: đập vỡ: They bashed in the window to get in.
bash out: viết nhanh: He bashed out an email reply.
be after: muốn có, đang tìm kiếm:What are you after?
be away: đi vắng:He's away on business.
be back: quay lại:I'll be back in five minutes.
be down: thất vọng, bị hạ:She's been down since she lost her job.
be in for: sắp phải trải qua:We're in for a treat tonight.
be in: có mặt, đang mốt:Is the boss in?
be off: đi khỏi, tắt:I must be off now.
be on: đang bật, đang chiếu:The TV is on.
be out of: không còn (vật), không còn trong (tình huống/trạng thái), xuất phát từ:We're out of milk.
be out: ra ngoài, hết, tắt, công khai (giới tính):The lights are out.
be up: thức dậy, đã xảy ra:What's up?
bear down on: gây áp lực lên:The storm was bearing down on the coastal town.
bear out: xác nhận, chứng thực:The evidence will bear out his claims.
bear up against: chống chọi với:They bore up against the difficulties bravely.
bear up: chịu đựng:She's bearing up well despite the difficulties.
bear with: kiên nhẫn với:Please bear with me for a moment.
beat down: ép giá, đè bẹp: I tried to beat down the price.
beat up: đánh đập:He was beaten up by a gang.
beef about: than phiền: She’s always beefing about her workload.
beef up on: củng cố (kiến thức): I need to beef up on grammar before the test.
beef up: tăng cường: We need to beef up security.
belt out: hát to, hát vang:She belted out her favorite song.
belt up: im lặng, thắt dây an toàn: Belt up and let me talk!
bite into: làm giảm, ảnh hưởng: Taxes bite into my income.
black out from: bất tỉnh vì: He blacked out from the heat.
black out on: bất tỉnh (rượu, thuốc), quên (thông tin): He blacked out on the way home.
black out: bất tỉnh, cúp điện:He blacked out during the performance.
block off: phong tỏa, chặn lại:The police blocked off the street.
block out: chặn lại, quên đi: Try to block out those bad memories.
blot out: che khuất, xóa khỏi tâm trí: Try to blot out the memory.
blow away: thổi bay:The strong wind blew away my hat.
blow down: thổi đổ:The storm blew down several trees.
blow in: đến bất ngờ: He just blew in from out of town.
blow off: bỏ qua, lờ đi, thổi bay:He tends to blow off his responsibilities.
blow out: thổi tắt, nổ lớp xe, thua thảm:She blew out the candles on her cake.
blow over: lắng xuống (cuộc tranh luận): The argument will soon blow over.
blow up: nổ tung, làm nổ:The old building was blown up by explosives.
blurt out: buột miệng nói ra:She accidentally blurted out the secret.
bog down: làm sa lầy, trì trệ: The meeting bogged down in details.
boil down to: cốt yếu là:The problem boils down to a lack of communication.
boil down: tóm tắt lại: The whole issue boils down to trust.
boil over: trào ra, vượt kiểm soát: Her anger finally boiled over.
bone up on: học cấp tốc, ôn lại:I need to bone up on my history for the exam.
book in: đăng ký, đặt chỗ:We need to book in at the hotel before 6 PM.
book up: đặt kín chỗ: The hotel is booked up for the summer.
bottle out: rút lui vì sợ: He bottled out at the last minute.
bottle up: kìm nén cảm xúc: Don’t bottle up your feelings.
bounce around: bàn bạc, trao đổi: We bounced around some ideas.
bounce back: phục hồi: She bounced back quickly from the flu.
bounce off: thảo luận: Can I bounce some ideas off you?
bow out: rút lui: He bowed out of the competition gracefully.
branch off: rẽ nhánh: The path branches off to the left.
break away from: tách khỏi: The colony broke away from the empire.
break away: thoát ly, tách ra:He tried to break away from the crowd.
break down into: chia nhỏ ra: Break it down into steps.
break down: hỏng hóc, suy sụp:My car broke down on the highway.
break in on: ngắt lời: She broke in on our conversation.
break in to: xông vào (không mời): He broke in to shout at the speaker.
break in: đột nhập, ngắt lời, làm quen (quần áo), thuần hóa:Someone broke in last night.
break into: đột nhập vào:The burglars broke into the house through the back door.
break off: ngừng đột ngột, bẻ gãy:They broke off their engagement.
break out in: nổi (phát ban, da): She broke out in hives after eating peanuts.
break out: bùng nổ (chiến tranh, dịch bệnh), trốn thoát:A fire broke out in the building.
break through: đột phá: Scientists have broken through in cancer research.
break up: chia tay, tan vỡ:They decided to break up after five years.
break with: đoạn tuyệt: He broke with his old friends.
breeze in/out: vào/ra dễ dàng, thoải mái:She just breezed in and took over.
breeze through: vượt qua dễ dàng: She breezed through the exam.
bring about: gây ra, mang lại:His actions brought about significant changes.
bring along: mang theo:Don't forget to bring along your camera.
bring around to: thuyết phục: I finally brought him around to my view.
bring around: thuyết phục:It took a lot of effort to bring him around to our point of view.
bring back: mang trả lại, gợi nhớ:This song always brings back memories.
bring down on: gây tai họa cho: He brought trouble down on himself.
bring down: hạ xuống, làm giảm:The company aims to bring down production costs.
bring forward: mang lên (cuộc họp); đề xuất: He brought forward a new idea during the meeting.
bring in: mang vào, thi hành (luật/chính sách), thu về (tiền), thu hút (khách), nhờ/thuê chuyên gia:The new law will bring in more revenue.
bring into: lôi kéo vào: Don’t bring me into your mess.
bring off: thực hiện thành công:It was a difficult task, but he brought it off.
bring on: gây ra, dẫn đến:Stress can bring on many health problems.
bring out: đưa ra, xuất bản, làm nổi bật:They are going to bring out a new album next month.
bring over: mang qua:Can you bring over those documents?
bring through: giúp vượt qua:Her strength brought her through the difficult time.
bring up: nuôi dưỡng, đề cập:She was brought up by her grandparents. / Don't bring up that topic again.
brown out: giảm điện áp tạm thời, ngừng sáng (đèn): There was a brown out during the storm.
brush aside: phớt lờ: He brushed aside the criticism.
brush off: gạt bỏ, phớt lờ:She brushed off his apologies.
brush past: lướt qua: He brushed past me without a word.
brush up on: ôn lại, trau dồi:I need to brush up on my Spanish before the trip.
bubble up: nổi lên (cảm xúc, vấn đề): Anger bubbled up inside her.
buckle down: làm việc chăm chỉ, nghiêm túc:You need to buckle down and study.
bug out: rút đi vội vã: They bugged out when trouble started.
build in: xây dựng sẵn:The house has many built-in features.
build into: tích hợp: The feature is built into the app.
build on: xây dựng dựa trên:We will build on our previous success.
build up to: dần dần tiến tới: The speech built up to a climax.
build up: xây dựng, tích lũy, phát triển:He's trying to build up his muscles.
bundle up: mặc ấm: Bundle up—it’s cold out.
burn down: cháy rụi:The old factory burned down completely.
burn out: kiệt sức, cháy hết:He's working too hard; he might burn out.
burn up: cháy hết, đốt cháy, nóng sốt, nổi giận:The documents were burned up in the fire.
burst in: xông vào:She suddenly burst in without knocking.
burst into: đột ngột bắt đầu, đột ngột xông vào: She burst into tears when she heard the news.
burst out: bật ra (cười, khóc):He burst out laughing.
burst with: tràn đầy:She was bursting with excitement.
butt in: chen vào, xen vào:Excuse me for butting in, but I have something to say.
butt out: đừng xen vào:Just butt out of my business!
butter up to: nịnh bợ: He’s buttering up to his boss.
butter up: nịnh hót: Stop buttering me up.
buy into: tin vào, chấp nhận:I don't buy into that theory.
buy off: mua chuộc:They tried to buy off the witness.
buy out: mua lại toàn bộ:One company decided to buy out the other.
buy up: mua hết sạch:Investors started to buy up all the shares.
call around: gọi điện nhiều nơi để hỏi:I'll call around to find the best price.
call away: gọi đi:He was called away on urgent business.
call back: gọi lại:I'll call you back in 10 minutes.
call by: ghé qua: I called by his house yesterday.
call for: yêu cầu, đòi hỏi:This situation calls for immediate action.
call forth: gợi ra, làm phát sinh: The speech called forth a strong reaction.
call in: gọi vào, triệu tập:They had to call in an expert.
call off: hủy bỏ:They decided to call off the meeting.
call on/upon: yêu cầu chính thức: The teacher called on me to answer.
call on: ghé thăm, kêu gọi:We decided to call on our friends.
call out: gọi to, chỉ trích:She called out his name.
call someone out: chỉ trích công khai: She called him out for lying.
call up: gọi điện, gọi nhập ngũ:I need to call up my sister.
calm down: bình tĩnh lại:Please calm down and tell me what happened.
camp out: cắm trại: We camped out by the lake.
cap off: kết thúc bằng điều gì: We capped off the day with fireworks.
care about: quan tâm đến:He doesn't seem to care about anything.
care for: chăm sóc, thích:She cares for her elderly parents. / I don't care for coffee.
carry away: làm cho bị cuốn đi (cảm xúc): He got carried away by excitement.
carry forward: chuyển tiếp (kế hoạch): We’ll carry forward the proposal to next week’s meeting.
carry off: thành công; mang đi: She carried off the prize with grace.
carry on: tiếp tục:Please carry on with your work.
carry out: thực hiện, tiến hành:They carried out the experiment successfully.
carry over into: lan sang, ảnh hưởng sang: The stress carried over into her weekend.
carry over: chuyển sang, kéo dài sang:The meeting's agenda items will carry over to the next session.
carry through: hoàn thành bất chấp khó khăn: His determination carried him through.
cart off: mang đi, tống đi:The police carted off the suspect.
carve out: tạo dựng, đạt được:She carved out a successful career for herself.
cash in on: kiếm tiền từ, lợi dụng:He tried to cash in on the latest trend.
cash out: rút tiền, chuyển đổi thành tiền mặt: He cashed out all his stocks.
cast around for: tìm kiếm: He cast around for a good excuse.
cast around/about for: tìm kiếm:He's casting about for new ideas.
cast off: vứt bỏ: He cast off his old habits.
catch at: chộp lấy: He caught at the rope to avoid falling.
catch on: trở nên phổ biến, hiểu ra:The new fashion trend quickly caught on.
catch out: làm lộ tẩy, làm sai:The teacher caught him out cheating.
catch up on: làm bù: I need to catch up on sleep.
catch up with: bắt kịp: I caught up with her at the train station.
catch up: bắt kịp, cập nhật:I need to catch up on my sleep.
cave in to: đầu hàng, chịu thua: They caved in to the pressure.
cave in: sụp đổ: The roof caved in during the storm.
chase down: đuổi theo và bắt được: The cops chased down the thief.
check in: làm thủ tục (khách sạn, sân bay):We need to check in two hours before the flight.
check into: kiểm tra, điều tra:The police are checking into the matter.
check on: kiểm tra, xem xét: I’ll check on the baby.
check out of: trả phòng: We checked out of the hotel at 11 a.m.
check out: trả phòng, kiểm tra, xem thử:Let's check out that new restaurant.
check over: kiểm tra kỹ lưỡng:You should always check over your work.
check up on: kiểm tra tình hình của ai/cái gì:I'll check up on him later.
cheer on: cổ vũ:The fans cheered on their team.
cheer up: vui lên:Cheer up! Things will get better.
chew out: mắng té tát: The coach chewed us out for being late.
chew over: cân nhắc kỹ: Let’s chew over the idea for a bit.
chicken out: sợ mà rút lui: He chickened out at the last minute.
chime in: xen ngang (trong cuộc trò chuyện), hòa thanh: He chimed in with his opinion.
chip away at: từ từ phá hủy: Time chips away at memory.
chip in for: góp tiền cho: Everyone chipped in for a gift.
chip in: góp tiền, đóng góp:We all chipped in to buy him a present.
choke up: nghẹn ngào:He choked up when talking about his late mother.
chop down: chặt cây: They chopped down the old oak tree.
chop up: chặt nhỏ, băm nhỏ:Can you chop up the vegetables?
clam up: im bặt, ngậm miệng:When questioned, she just clams up.
clamp down on: hạn chế nghiêm ngặt: The police are clamping down on illegal parking.
clamp down: đàn áp: Authorities are clamping down on crime.
clamp out: dập tắt (thiết bị): The safety system clamps out power when there's a fault.
clean off: lau sạch: She cleaned off the table after dinner.
clean out: dọn sạch, vét sạch:I need to clean out my closet.
clean up after: dọn sau ai: I always clean up after the dog.
clean up: dọn dẹp sạch sẽ:Let's clean up this mess.
clear away: dọn dẹp đi:Please clear away the dishes.
clear off: cút đi: Clear off, I’m busy!
clear out: dọn dẹp sạch, rời đi:It's time for us to clear out.
clear up: làm sáng tỏ, hết bệnh, quang đãng:I hope the weather will clear up soon.
cling to: bám vào: The child clung to his mother.
close down: đóng cửa, ngừng hoạt động:The factory closed down last year.
close in on: tiến đến gần: The enemy was closing in on them.
close in: tiến gần, bao vây, bao phủ (thời tiết):The police are closing in on the suspects.
close out: kết thúc: They closed out the meeting with a vote.
clown around: làm trò hề:Stop clowning around and get serious.
cock up: làm hỏng; gây ra sai lầm: They cocked up the presentation badly.
come across as: tạo ấn tượng là: He comes across as confident.
come across: tình cờ gặp, tình cờ tìm thấy:I came across an old photo while cleaning.
come after: theo sau, nối nghiệp:His son will come after him in the business.
come along with: đi cùng: He came along with us.
come along: tiến bộ, đi cùng:How is your project coming along?
come apart: tách rời, vỡ ra:The old book started to come apart.
come around: tỉnh lại, thay đổi ý kiến, ghé thăm:She finally came around to my point of view.
come at: tấn công: He came at me with a knife.
come away: đi khỏi, rời đi:He came away from the meeting feeling positive.
come back: quay lại:When will you come back?
come before: đứng trước, ưu tiên hơn, xuất hiện trước (tòa án):Family always comes before work for him.
come between: xen vào mối quan hệ: Don’t let jealousycome between us.
come by: kiếm được, ghé qua:How did you come by such a valuable painting?
come clean about: thú nhận: He came clean about the mistake.
come clean: thú nhận:It's time to come clean about what you did.
come down on: chỉ trích nghiêm khắc:The boss will come down on him heavily for that mistake.
come down with: mắc bệnh:I think I'm coming down with a cold.
come down: đi xuống, giảm:The prices have come down recently.
come for: đến lấy/đón:The taxi will come for you at 7 PM.
come forward with: cung cấp (thông tin): She came forward with new evidence.
come from: đến từ:Where do you come from?
come in: vào trong, đến nơi:Please come in and sit down.
come into: thừa kế: He came into a large fortune.
come of: xuất phát từ: Nothing good will come of this plan.
come off it: thôi đi (ngừng nói xạo): Oh, come off it!
come off: thành công, bong ra, tróc ra:The plan didn't quite come off.
come on: tiếp tục đi, nhanh lên, thôi nào!:Come on, we're going to be late!
come out: xuất hiện, xuất bản, lộ ra:The sun finally came out.
come over: ghé qua, vượt qua:Why don't you come over to my place tonight?
come through with: đưa ra, cung cấp: He came through with the payment.
come through: vượt qua, hoàn thành:We knew he would come through in the end.
come to terms with: chấp nhận, thích nghi:She's slowly coming to terms with her loss.
come to: đạt đến (số lượng), tỉnh lại, kết luận:The total bill comes to $50.
come up against: đối mặt với:We came up against a lot of resistance.
come up to: đạt đến mức, đến gần:The results didn't come up to our expectations.
come up with: nảy ra ý tưởng, đưa ra:She came up with a brilliant idea.
come up: nảy sinh, xảy ra, đi lên:A new problem has come up.
cook up: bịa chuyện (đùa), bày ra (kế hoạch):They cooked up a scheme to get rich.
cool down: nguội đi, bình tĩnh lại:Let the soup cool down before eating.
cool off: bình tĩnh lại: Let’s cool off before we talk again.
cope with: đối phó, xoay sở:How do you cope with all that stress?
cotton on (to): hiểu ra, nhận ra:It took him a while to cotton on to the joke.
cough up: khạc ra, nôn tiền ra: He finally coughed up the money he owed.
count down to: đếm ngược tới: We’re counting down to New Year.
count in: tính cả vào: You can count me in for dinner.
count on: tin cậy vào, dựa vào:You can count on me for help.
count out: loại trừ, không tính đến, đếm từng cái:You can count me out for the trip.
count up: tính tổng: Let’s count up the votes now.
cover for: bao che, làm thay:Can you cover for me while I'm on vacation?
cover up: che đậy: They tried to cover up the scandal.
cow out: làm ai sợ: He was cowed out of speaking his mind.
crack down on: đàn áp, trấn áp:The police are cracking down on drug dealing.
crack down: trấn áp: The police cracked down on illegal street racing.
crack on: tiếp tục làm việc nhanh chóng: Let’s crack on with the task.
crack up at: cười phá lên vì: I cracked up at his joke.
crack up: phá lên cười, suy sụp tinh thần:He just cracked up when he heard the news.
crash out: ngủ gục: I crashed out after the flight.
cream off: vơ vét, lấy phần tốt nhất:The rich often cream off the profits.
crop out: nổi lên, xuất hiện: New problems cropped out during testing.
crop up: nảy sinh vấn đề:Problems often crop up during the project.
cross out: gạch bỏ:Please cross out the incorrect answers.
cross over: chuyển đổi: Many actors cross over into directing.
crowd around: vây quanh:People crowded around the street performer.
cry out for: rất cần: The country cries out for reform.
cry out: kêu la: She cried out in pain.
cry over: khóc vì: Don’t cry over spilled milk.
curl up: cuộn lại: He curled up on the couch with a book.
cut across: cắt ngang qua: I cut across the field to save time.
cut back on: cắt giảm: We need to cut back on expenses.
cut back: cắt giảm: We’re trying to cut back on expenses.
cut down on: giảm bớt: You should cut down on sugar.
cut down: chặt cây, giảm bớt:They had to cut down the old tree.
cut in on: chen ngang: She cut in on our conversation.
cut in: chen ngang, xen vào:Don't cut in when I'm speaking.
cut off from: cách ly khỏi: The town was cut off from the outside world.
cut off: cắt đứt, cô lập:Their electricity was cut off.
cut out for: phù hợp với: I don’t think he’s cut out for teaching.
cut out: cắt ra, loại bỏ, ngừng hoạt động (động cơ):I decided to cut out sugar from my diet.
cut up: cắt nhỏ, bị thương bởi vậy sắc nhọn, làm trò nghịch ngợm:Please cut up the chicken for the children.
dabble in: thử làm (không nghiêm túc):He likes to dabble in painting in his free time.
dag on: lôi kéo (không chính thức): His friends dagged him on to try it.
dash off: viết nhanh, làm nhanh:She had to dash off a quick email.
dash out: lao ra nhanh: She dashed out to catch the bus.
deal in: kinh doanh, đối phó với:They deal in antique furniture.
deal out: phân phát: He dealt out the cards.
deal with: giải quyết, đối phó:I can deal with this problem myself.
delve into: tìm hiểu sâu, đào sâu:She decided to delve into her family history.
depend on: phụ thuộc vào, tin cậy vào:You can depend on me.
die away: yếu dần, tắt dần:The sound of the music slowly died away.
die down: lắng xuống, dịu đi:The storm eventually died down.
die off: chết dần, mất dần:Many species are dying off due to climate change.
die out: tuyệt chủng, biến mất:Dinosaurs died out millions of years ago.
dig deep into: tìm hiểu sâu: We need to dig deep into the problem.
dig deep: nỗ lực hết sức, chi nhiều tiền (cho mục đích): He had to dig deep to win
dig in: bắt đầu ăn, đào bới:Dinner's ready, everyone dig in!
dig into: đào sâu vào, tiêu thụ:He dug into his pockets for some change.
dig out: đào ra, tìm ra:I need to dig out my winter coat.
dig up: đào lên, khám phá:They dug up some ancient artifacts.
dish out to: phát cho ai: The manager dished out tasks to everyone.
dish out: phân phát, chỉ trích:The teacher was dishing out homework.
dish up: dọn món ăn: She dished up some pasta.
dive into: lao vào làm gì: He dove into his work right after lunch.
do away with: loại bỏ, xóa bỏ:We should do away with unnecessary rules.
do in: giết chết, làm kiệt sức:That long run really did me in.
do over: làm lại:Your essay is not good enough; you need to do it over.
do up: cài, trang trí, sửa chữa, thắt (dây giày):Can you do up my zipper?
do with: có liên quan đến, cần:What does this have to do with the matter?
do without: không cần đến:I can't do without my phone.
doll up: ăn mặc diện:She likes to doll up for parties.
double back: quay ngược lại (để tìm kiếm/tránh):We had to double back to find our keys.
double down on: kiên định, tăng cường: They doubled down on security.
double up: dùng chung (phòng), gấp đôi, gập người (đau/cười):We had to double up in one room.
doze off: thiếp đi: I dozed off during the movie.
drag down: làm suy sụp: The scandal dragged down the whole company.
drag on: kéo dài lê thê: The meeting dragged on for hours.
drag out: kéo dài: Let’s not drag this out.
drag up: khơi lại chuyện cũ: Don't drag u the past.
drain away: rút cạn, cạn kiệt:His energy slowly drained away.
draw back: lùi lại, rút lại:He drew back in horror.
draw in: kéo vào, thu hút, rút ngắn (ngày):The days are starting to draw in.
draw on: tận dụng, dựa vào:She had to draw on all her experience.
draw out: kéo dài, rút tiền:They tried to draw out the negotiations.
draw up: soạn thảo, dừng lại:The car drew up outside the house.
dream up: nghĩ ra, tưởng tượng ra:He dreamed up a fantastic story.
dress down: ăn mặc xuề xòa:You can dress down for the party.
dress up: ăn mặc đẹp, hóa trang:She likes to dress up for special occasions.
drift apart: xa cách dần:They used to be close friends, but they drifted apart.
drink in: say sưa ngắm nhìn, thưởng thức:She drank in the beautiful scenery.
drink to: nâng ly chúc mừng: Let’s drink to your success!
drink up: uống cạn:Drink up your milk!
drive off: xua đuổi, lái xe đi: He drove off angrily.
drive out: đuổi đi:They tried to drive out the intruders.
drop by: ghé qua (thăm): I’ll drop by your place later.
drop in: ghé thăm bất chợt:Feel free to drop in anytime.
drop off: bỏ rơi, ngủ gật, giảm (số lượng):Can you drop me off at the station?
drop out: bỏ học, bỏ cuộc:He dropped out of college.
drown out: lấn át âm thanh: The noise drowned out her voice.
drum into: nhồi nhét vào đầu: They drummed the rules into us.
drum up: thu hút, kêu gọi:He's trying to drum up support for his campaign.
dry off: lau khô: Dry off before entering.
dry out: khô hoàn toàn: Let the tent dry out in the sun.
dry up: khô cạn, cạn lời:The river has dried up.
dwell on: cứ nghĩ mãi về (tiêu cực):Don't dwell on your past mistakes.
ease into: bắt đầu nhẹ nhàng: Ease into the routine slowly.
ease off: dịu đi, giảm bớt: The rain should ease off by afternoon.
ease out: làm ai rút lui: They eased him out of the board.
ease up: dịu lại, nới lỏng: The traffic is finally easing up.
eat away at: ăn mòn, gặm nhấm:The constant worry was eating away at him.
eat in: ăn ở nhà:We decided to eat in tonight.
eat out: ăn ngoài:Let's eat out tonight.
eat up: ăn hết: Eat up your vegetables.
edge out: loại bỏ từ từ: She edged out the competition with her performance.
egg on: khuyến khích, xúi giục:His friends egged him on to jump.
egg someone on: xúi giục: They egged him on to steal the wallet.
embark on: bắt đầu (dự án): She embarked on a new business venture.
empty out: dọn sạch, làm trống: He emptied out the drawer.
end in: kết thúc bằng:The game ended in a draw.
end up with: kết thúc với: I ended up with a headache.
end up: kết thúc, cuối cùng:We ended up staying at a friend's house.
enter into: bắt đầu (cuộc đàm phán, thỏa thuận):They entered into negotiations.
even out: san bằng, cân bằng:The road needs to be evened out.
evens out: làm trở nên bình thường: The road evens out after the first mile.
face down: đối mặt và vượt qua: He faced down his opponents.
face off: đối đầu: The two teams will face off tomorrow.
face up to: đối mặt, chấp nhận:You need to face up to your responsibilities.
fall apart: tan vỡ, đổ nát:Their marriage fell apart.
fall back on: dựa vào, trông cậy vào:He had no savings to fall back on.
fall back: rút lui: The army had to fall back under heavy fire.
fall behind: tụt lại phía sau:He's falling behind in his studies.
fall for: yêu, tin vào:He fell for her charm. / Don't fall for that trick.
fall in with: đồng ý với, gặp gỡ:I decided to fall in with their plans.
fall in: xếp hàng, sụp đổ:The soldiers were ordered to fall in.
fall into: rơi vào: He fell into a trap.
fall off: giảm đi, rơi ra:Sales have fallen off recently.
fall out: cãi vã, rụng (tóc, răng):They fell out over a small disagreement.
fall through: thất bại, không thành:Our plans fell through at the last minute.
farm out: giao việc: They farmed out the project.
fawn over: nịnh nọt:She was always fawning over the boss.
feed into: ảnh hưởng đến: Your actions feed into the overall results.
feed off of: sống dựa vào: He feeds off others’ fear.
feed off: sống nhờ vào, hưởng lợi từ:Some businesses feed off public fear.
feel for: thông cảm cho:I really feel for them; they're going through a tough time.
feel out: thăm dò: I tried to feel out his opinion.
feel up to: cảm thấy đủ sức để:I don't feel up to going out tonight.
feel up: sờ mó khiếm nhã: He was arrested for feeling up a woman.
fend off: đẩy lùi; né tránh: She tried to fend off the attacker.
fess up: thú nhận:Come on, fess up! Who ate the last cookie?
fiddle with: nghịch ngợm: Stop fiddling with your phone.
fight back: chống trả: He fought back against the attacker.
fight down: kiềm chế cảm xúc: He fought down his fear.
fight off: chống lại: She fought off the flu.
fight through: vượt qua (khó khăn): She fought through illness to win.
figure for: mong đợi st/sb: I didn’t figure for such a strong reaction.
figure in: tính đến, liên quan: His name figures in the list.
figure on: dự tính: I didn’t figure on such bad traffic.
figure out: tìm ra, hiểu ra:I can't figure out this puzzle.
file for: nộp đơn (ly hôn, phá sản): He filed for bankruptcy last week.
fill in for: làm thay ai: Can you fill in for me tomorrow?
fill in: điền vào, điền hộ:Please fill in this form.
fill out: điền (thông tin) vào:You need to fill out the application form.
fill up with: chứa đầy: The room filled up with smoke.
fill up: đổ đầy, làm đầy:Can you fill up the car with gas?
filter down: lan rộng dần: The manager’s message eventually filtered down to the staff.
find fault with: phê bình, chỉ trích: He always finds fault with everything I do.
find out: tìm ra, khám phá:I want to find out who did this.
finish off: hoàn thành, ăn hết:Let's finish off the rest of the pizza.
finish up: hoàn thành, kết thúc:We need to finish up this project by Friday.
finish with: chấm dứt quan hệ: She finally finished with her ex.
fire away: cứ hỏi đi:If you have any questions, just fire away.
fire up: kích động, khởi động: The coach fired up the team before the game.
fish for: cố lấy (lời khen, thông tin): He’s fishing for compliments again.
fish out: lôi ra, vớt ra: She fished out a coin from her bag.
fit in: hòa nhập, phù hợp:He finds it hard to fit in with the new group.
fix up: sửa chữa, sắp xếp:We need to fix up the old house.
fizz out: kết thúc một cách yếu ớt: The excitement fizzed out quickly.
fizzle out: yếu dần, thất bại:The plan eventually fizzled out.
flare out: bùng lên: The skirt flared out beautifully.
flare up: bùng phát (bệnh, tức giận):His old injury flared up again.
flash back to: hồi tưởng lại: He flashed back to his childhood.
flesh out: làm rõ, bổ sung chi tiết: Let’s flesh out the proposal more.
flick through: lướt nhanh (sách): She flicked through the magazine.
fling out: vứt bỏ mạnh tay: He flung out the broken toy.
flip through: lật nhanh (sách, kênh): She flipped through the magazine.
flood in: đổ xô đến nơi: Applications flooded in after the job was posted.
flunk out: bị đuổi học: He flunked out of college last year.
fly at: tấn công bất ngờ: The dog suddenly flew at me.
fob off: đánh lừa; xua đi: Don’t try to fob me off with excuses.
focus on: tập trung vào: I need to focus on my studies.
fold up: gập lại, thất bại: He folded up the map.
follow on: theo sau, tiếp nối: This chapter follows on from the last.
follow through: làm đến cùng, hoàn thành:You need to follow through on your promises.
follow up on: tiếp tục theo dõi: I’ll follow up on the report.
follow up with: theo sau bằng: We’ll follow up with an email.
follow up: theo dõi, tiếp tục:I'll follow up with him next week.
fool around with: nghịch ngợm: Stop fooling around with that!
fool around: đùa nghịch, lãng phí thời gian:Stop fooling around and do your homework.
fool with: nghịch dại: Don’t fool with electrical wires.
fork out/over: chi tiền (miễn cưỡng):I had to fork out a lot of money for the repairs.
fork over: nộp tiền: Fork over the cash!
freak out over: hoảng loạn vì: She freaked out over the test results.
freak out: hoảng loạn: I freaked out when I saw the snake.
freeze out: cô lập ai đó: They tried to freeze him out of the decision-making.
freeze over: đóng băng: The lake froze over last night.
freeze up: cứng đờ, đống băng: I froze up on stage.
freshen up: làm mới, rửa mặt:I need to freshen up before the meeting.
fret over: lo lắng: Stop fretting over small problems.
frighten away/off: dọa sợ bỏ chạy:The noise frightened off the birds.
frown on/upon: không tán thành, không chấp thuận:Most people frown upon cheating.
gang up against: liên kết chống lại ai: The others ganged up against him.
gang up on: hợp sức chống lại:The bigger boys ganged up on him.
gather in: thu hoạch: The farmers gathered in the harvest.
gear up: chuẩn bị: Gear up for battle!
get across to: truyền đạt (ý tưởng, thông điệp); vượt qua (sông, đường): I couldn’t get my point across to her.
get across: truyền đạt, làm cho hiểu:It's hard to get across my feelings.
get ahead of: đi trước: We need to get ahead of the competition.
get ahead: tiến bộ, thành công:You need to work hard to get ahead.
get along with: hòa hợp với: I get along with my coworkers very well.
get along: hòa thuận, tiến triển:Do you get along with your siblings?
get around to: có thời gian để làm:I haven't got around to cleaning the garage yet.
get around: đi lại, lan truyền:It's easy to get around the city by bus.
get at: ngụ ý, tiếp cận, làm phiền: What are you getting at?
get away with: thoát tội, không bị phạt:He thinks he can get away with anything.
get away: thoát khỏi, đi nghỉ:I need to get away for a few days.
get back: trở lại: I just got back from vacation.
get behind on: chậm trễ: He got behind on his rent.
get behind: ủng hộ; mất kiểm soát: I really get behind that idea.
get by: xoay sở đủ sống, tạm ổn:We can get by on one salary.
get down on: chỉ trích: Stop getting down on yourself.
get down to: bắt tay vào làm (nghiêm túc):Let's get down to business.
get down: cuối xuống, làm thất vọng, ghi chép, nghiêm túc làm việc, quẩy (nhiệt tình):The bad news really got him down.
get even with: trả đũa, trả thù:He's trying to get even with her.
get in on: tham gia: I want to get in on the action.
get in touch with: liên hệ: I got in touch with the manager.
get in: vào trong, đến nơi:What time did you get in last night?
get into: tham gia, dính vào:He's trying to get into politics.
get mixed up in: dính vào: He got mixed up in crime.
get off on: thích thú điều gì: He gets off on extreme sports.
get off with: thoát phạt nặng (phạt nhẹ), quan hệ thân mật: He got off with just a warning.
get off: xuống xe, rời đi, thoát tội, khởi đầu, gửi đi (thư, gói hàng):I got off the bus at the next stop.
get on board: đồng thuận, tham gia: She got on board with the plan.
get on for: gần đến (tuổi, giờ): It’s getting on for midnight.
get on with: hòa thuận với, tiếp tục làm:Let's get on with the work.
get on: lên xe, hòa thuận, tiến bộ:How are you getting on with your new job?
get out from under: thoát khỏi (áp lực): She wants to get out from under his control.
get out of hand: mất kiểm soát: The party got out of hand.
get out of: tránh khỏi, thoát khỏi:You can't get out of your responsibilities.
get out: đi ra, tiết lộ:The secret finally got out.
get over with: hoàn thành để hết lo: Let’s get the test over with.
get over: vượt qua, hồi phục:It took her a long time to get over the illness.
get rid of: loại bỏ:I want to get rid of these old clothes.
get round to: xoay xở làm gì: I finally got round to reading.
get the hang of: biết cách làm: After a while, I got the hang of the controls.
get through to: liên lạc được, làm cho hiểu:I can't get through to him.
get through with: hoàn thành: I just got through with the report.
get through: vượt qua, liên lạc được:I can't seem to get through to him.
get to: bắt đầu, làm phiền:This noise is really getting to me.
get together: tụ tập, gặp gỡ:Let's get together for coffee soon.
get up to: làm gì đó nghịch ngợm, đạt đến:What have you been getting up to?
get up: thức dậy, đứng dậy:What time do you usually get up?
get wind of: nghe lén được: They got wind of the plan early.
ghost on: bỏ mặc (trong mối quan hệ): He ghosted on her after the second date.
give away to: nhường chỗ cho: His anger gave away to tears.
give away: cho đi, tiết lộ:He decided to give away all his old clothes.
give back: trả lại:Don't forget to give back the book.
give in to: nhượng bộ: He gave in to their demands.
give in: nhượng bộ, đầu hàng:She refused to give in to his demands.
give off: tỏa ra (mùi, nhiệt):The flowers give off a sweet scent.
give out: phân phát, cạn kiệt:My legs gave out after the long walk.
give up: từ bỏ:Don't give up on your dreams.
give way to: nhường chỗ cho: The old building gave way to a new mall.
give way: nhường đường: The bridge gave way under pressure.
gloss over: bỏ qua, lờ đi (chi tiết khó chịu):The report glossed over the problems.
go about: bắt đầu làm: How should we go about fixing it?
go after: theo đuổi:He decided to go after his dreams.
go against the grain: làm ngược thói quen: It goes against the grain to lie.
go against: chống lại, trái với:This decision goes against my principles.
go ahead with: tiến hành: Let’s go ahead with the plan.
go ahead: cứ tiến hành, tiếp tục:Please go ahead with the plan.
go along with: đồng ý với, đi theo:I'll go along with your idea.
go along: đi cùng, đồng ý:I'll go along with your idea.
go ape: phát điên lên; rất phấn khích: The kids went ape when they saw the presents.
go around doing: hay làm gì: He goes around lying to people.
go around: đi quanh, đủ cho mọi người:There isn't enough food to go around.
go away: đi xa, biến mất:I wish this cold would go away.
go awry: sai lệch; hỏng: The plan went awry at the last minute.
go back on: nuốt lời, rút lời:He never goes back on his word.
go back: quay lại, có từ (thời gian):I need to go back home.
go by without: trôi qua mà không có gì: The day went by without incident.
go by: trôi qua (thời gian), tuân theo, biết đến với tên gọi:Time seems to go by so fast.
go down in: được ghi nhận trong: She’ll go down in history.
go down: đi xuống, giảm, chìm:The sun is going down.
go for: chọn, cố gắng đạt được:I think I'll go for the red one.
go haywire: hỏng hóc một cách hỗn loạn: The system went haywire after the update.
go in for: tham gia, thích: He goes in for sports.
go in: đi vào:Please go in first.
go into: điều tra, thảo luận chi tiết:We need to go into this matter more deeply.
go off on: nổi nóng với ai: He went off on me for no reason.
go off the rail: mất kiểm soát: He went off the rails after losing his job.
go off with: cuỗm đi: Someone went off with my bag.
go off: nổ (súng, bom), reo (chuông), thiu (thức ăn):The alarm clock went off at 6 AM.
go on about: nói mãi: She goes on about her cat all day.
go on with: tiếp tục với: Go on with your story.
go on: tiếp tục, xảy ra:What's going on here?
go out of business: phá sản: Many small shops went out of business during the recession.
go out to: gửi lời tới: My heart goes out to them.
go out with: hẹn hò: She's going out with Tom.
go out: đi ra ngoài, mất điện, lỗi thời:The lights suddenly went out.
go over to: chuyển sang: He went over to their side.
go over: kiểm tra kỹ, xem lại:Let's go over the plan one more time.
go overboard: làm quá mức: Don’t go overboard with the decorations.
go through with: hoàn thành, làm đến cùng:Are you really going to go through with it?
go through: trải qua, xem xét kỹ lưỡng:She's going through a difficult time.
go to great lengths: nỗ lực rất nhiều: She went to great lengths to ensure the event was perfect.
go under: phá sản: Many small businesses went under last year.
go up: đi lên, tăng, xây dụng lên, bị phá hủy, công bố:Prices are going up.
go with: hợp với, đi cùng, đồng ý, lựa chọn:That shirt doesn't go with your pants.
gobble up: ăn ngấu nghiến, nuốt chửng: He gobbled up his lunch.
goof off: lãng phí thời gian: They were goofing off at work.
grind to: chậm lại cho đến...: The train ground to a halt due to the snow.
gripe about: càu nhàu, than phiền: He’s always griping about his job.
grow apart from: xa cách: They grew apart after college.
grow apart: xa cách:They used to be close friends, but they grew apart.
grow back: mọc lại:Her hair will grow back quickly.
grow into: lớn vừa, phát triển thành:He'll soon grow into his new shoes.
grow on: dần thích, dần quen:This music is starting to grow on me.
grow out of: không vừa (quần áo, giày), bỏ thói quen khi lớn, phát triển từ (nguồn gốc):She's grown out of her old clothes.
grow up: lớn lên, trưởng thành:What do you want to be when you grow up?
gun for: tìm cách gây hại, nhắm vào:The manager is gunning for him.
hammer away at: làm việc liên tục: She’s been hammering away at her essay.
hammer out: thảo luận kỹ để đạt thỏa thuận:They managed to hammer out a deal.
hand back: trả lại:Please hand back the papers when you're finished.
hand down: truyền lại, tuyên án:The old traditions are handed down from generation to generation.
hand in hand: cùng nhau, song hành:Economic growth and environmental protection should go hand in hand.
hand in: nộp:You need to hand in your assignment by Friday.
hand out: phân phát:The teacher handed out the worksheets.
hand over to: giao lại cho: I’ll hand over to the next speaker.
hand over: bàn giao:The thief was forced to hand over the money.
hang about/around: lảng vảng, la cà:Don't hang around on the street corner.
hang around with: chơi với ai: He hangs around with a bad crowd.
hang around: lảng vảng, la cà:Don't just hang around, do something!
hang back: do dự: He hung back, unsure of what to do.
hang fire: trì hoãn: The plan is still hanging fire.
hang on to: giữ lấy: Hang on to that receipt!
hang on: chờ một chút, bám vào:Hang on, I'll be right there.
hang out: đi chơi, phơi (quần áo):We often hang out at the coffee shop.
hang over: lơ lửng (nguy cơ, cảm xúc): Guilt hung over him.
hang up: cúp máy, treo lên:Don't hang up yet!
happen upon: tình cờ gặp: We happened upon a lovely café.
harp on about: nói mãi không thôi: He keeps harping on about politics.
harp on: nhai đi nhai lại: Stop harping on about my mistake.
hash out: thảo luận kỹ: Let’s hash out the details later.
hash over: bàn bạc lại: Let’s hash it over again.
have it in for: có ác cảm với:The teacher seems to have it in for me.
have it out: nói chuyện thẳng thắn: I need to have it out with her.
have on: mặc, có (cuộc hẹn, kệ hoạch):Do you have anything on for tonight?
head for: đi về phía, hướng về:We're heading for the exit.
head off: ngăn chặn, khởi hành: They tried to head off the protest.
head out: rời đi: I’m heading out now.
head up: dẫn đầu: He heads up the finance team.
hear about: nghe về:Have you heard about the new movie?
hear from: nhận tin từ:I haven't heard from him in ages.
hear of: nghe nói về (sự tồn tại):Have you ever heard of this band?
hear out: nghe hết lời:Please hear me out before you decide.
help out with: giúp một tay: Can you help out with the dishes?
help out: giúp đỡ:Can you help out with the dishes?
hit back at: phản công: She hit back at her critics.
hit back: đánh trả, phản công:He waited for his chance to hit back.
hit it off: hợp nhau ngay lần đầu gặp: They hit it off right away at the party.
hit on/upon: nảy ra ý tưởng:She suddenly hit on a brilliant idea.
hit on: nảy ra ý tưởng:He suddenly hit on a solution to the problem.
hit out at: chỉ trích dữ dội: He hit out at the media.
hit the spot: đúng ý: That meal hit the spot!
hit up: liên lạc với, xin tiền: Hit me up later.
hit upon: tình cờ nảy ra ý: He hit upon a brilliant idea.
hold against: ghim trong lòng: Don’t hold it against me.
hold back from: kìm nén: She held back from shouting.
hold back: kìm lại, che giấu:She tried to hold back her tears.
hold down: duy trì, giữ chặt: He holds down two jobs.
hold forth: nói dài dòng:He likes to hold forth on his political views.
hold off: trì hoãn, ngăn chặn:We need to hold off making a decision.
hold on to: giữ lấy: Hold on to your dreams.
hold on: giữ chặt, chờ máy:Hold on tight to the rope.
hold onto: giữ lấy: Hold onto your ticket.
hold out for: kiên quyết đòi hỏi:They are holding out for a better offer.
hold out: đưa ra, kéo dài, kháng cự:They continued to hold out against the enemy.
hold together: giữ vững, không đổ vỡ: The team held together during tough times.
hold up: trì hoãn, cướp:The bank was held up last night.
hold with: đồng tình (thường phủ định): I don’t hold with lying.
hook in: kéo vào: He hooked me into the plan.
hook onto: móc vào: Hook the cable onto the socket.
hook up (with): kết nối thiết bị, gặp gỡ:I'm going to hook up with some friends tonight.
hook up with: gặp gỡ, kết nối: I’ll hook up with you later.
horse around: đùa nghịch: Stop horsing around in class!
horses around: chơi đùa ồn ào: The kids were horsing around in the backyard.
hound after: săn đuổi không ngừng: Reporters hounded after the celebrity.
hound out: đuổi cổ: He was hounded out of the company by scandal.
hunt down: săn lùng, truy bắt: The police hunted down the suspect.
hunt for: tìm kiếm: We’re hunting for a new apartment.
hush up: giấu kín, che đậy:They tried to hush up the scandal.
inch along: tiến từng chút: The traffic inched along during rush hour.
iron in: đưa vào như một phần không thể thiếu: Discipline must be ironed in.
iron out: giải quyết (vấn đề): Let’s iron out the details first.
jack in: bỏ việc: He jacked in his job last week.
jack up: tăng giá, nâng lên: They jacked up the rent again.
jazz up: làm cho sống động, thêm gia vị:Let's jazz up this presentation.
join in with: cùng tham gia: Please join in with us.
join in: tham gia:Everyone should join in the discussion.
join up: tham gia (quân đội), nối lại:He decided to join up the army.
joke around: đùa giỡn:They were just joking around.
jot down: ghi nhanh: I jotted down her number.
jump at: nắm lấy cơ hội nhanh chóng:She jumped at the chance to travel.
jump in: nhảy vào, xen vào:Feel free to jump in with your ideas.
jump on: mắng, chỉ trích: She jumped on me for being late.
jump out at: nổi bật, hiện ra bất ngờ: Her red dress jumped out at me.
keep abreast: theo kịp thông tin: I try to keep abreast of the latest news.
keep after: thúc giục liên tục: Keep after him to study.
keep ahead of: dẫn trước: You must keep ahead of your competitors.
keep at it: kiên trì: Just keep at it!
keep at: kiên trì làm:If you keep at it, you'll master it.
keep away from: tránh xa: Keep away from the fire.
keep away: tránh xa:Keep away from the dog, it bites!
keep back from: tránh xa khỏi: Keep back from the edge.
keep back: giữ lại, ngăn lại:The police tried to keep back the crowd.
keep down: giữ không cho tăng, kìm lại:Try to keep down the noise.
keep from: ngăn bản thân làm gì: I couldn’t keep from laughing.
keep in: giữ trong:He couldn't keep in his excitement.
keep off: tránh xa, không chạm vào:Keep off the grass!
keep on at: nhắc nhở liên tục: She kept on at me to finish my homework.
keep on: tiếp tục:Keep on trying!
keep out of: không dính vào: Keep out of trouble.
keep out: không cho vào:Keep out of my room!
keep tabs on: theo dõi: She keeps tabs on her kids.
keep to: tuân thủ: Please keep to the schedule.
keep under: giữ trong tầm kiểm soát: The rebels were kept under surveillance.
keep up with: theo kịp, cập nhật, duy trì liên lạc:It's hard to keep up with the news these days.
keep up: duy trì, theo kịp:It's hard to keep up with the latest trends.
key in: nhập dữ liệu: Please key in your password.
kick about: thảo luận không chính thức, đi lang thang, để lung tung: We kicked the idea about for hours.
kick around: bàn qua lại: We kicked the idea around.
kick back: thư giãn; ăn chia bất hợp pháp: Let’s kick back and watch a movie tonight.
kick in: bắt đầu có tác dụng, đóng góp:The medicine will kick in soon.
kick off: bắt đầu:The conference will kick off at 9 AM.
kick out: đuổi ra:He was kicked out of the bar.
knock about: đi lang thang, sử dụng bừa bãi:He likes to knock about in old clothes.
knock back: uống cạn, từ chối: He knocked back a few beers.
knock down: đánh đổ, tông ngã, hạ giá:They plan to knock down the old building.
knock it off: dừng lại (thô tục): Knock it off, you two!
knock off: ngừng làm việc, hạ giá:Let's knock off early today. They knocked $10 off the price
knock out of: loại khỏi, làm mất mát: The blow knocked the wind out of him. He news knocked the fight out of her.
knock out: đánh gục, làm bất tỉnh:The boxer was knocked out in the first round.
knock over: đánh đổ:Be careful not to knock over the vase.
know of: biết về (ai, cái gì): I know of a good restaurant nearby.
knuckle down: làm việc chăm chỉ, nghiêm túc:You need to knuckle down if you want to pass the exam.
knuckle under: đầu hàng, chịu thua: He finally knuckled under to pressure.
land on: mắng ai: My boss landed on me for the error.
lash out at: nổi nóng với ai: He lashed out at his coworkers.
lash out: chỉ trích dữ dội, tấn công:He suddenly lashed out at his colleagues.
laugh off: cười xòa cho qua:She tried to laugh off her embarrassment.
lay aside: để dành (tiền), gác qua một bên: He laid aside his book and stood up.
lay down: đặt xuống, ban hành:The company has laid down new rules.
lay in: tích trữ:We need to lay in some supplies for the winter.
lay into: chỉ trích dữ dội: He laid into me for no reason.
lay off from: sa thải: He was laid off from his job.
lay off: sa thải:Many workers were laid off due to the recession.
lay out for: chi tiền cho: I laid out $200 for the repair.
lay out: sắp đặt, trình bày, chi tiêu:They laid out the plans for the new building.
lead to: dẫn đến:His carelessness led to the accident.
lead up to: dẫn đến: The weeks leading up to the wedding were stressful.
leaf through: lật qua (sách): She leafed through the magazine.
leak out: rò rỉ (thông tin):The secret leaked out to the press.
leave behind: bỏ lại, quên lại:Don't leave behind any personal belongings.
leave off: dừng lại: Let’s leave off here for now.
leave out: bỏ sót (vô tình), bỏ qua (cố tình):Don't leave out any details.
let down: làm thất vọng:Don't let me down!
let go of: buông tay, buông bỏ: She let go of the past.
let in on: tiết lộ: I let her in on the plan.
let in: cho vào:Can you let in the cat?
let off: tha cho, bắn (pháo):The police let him off with a warning.
let on: tiết lộ:Don't let on that you know.
let out: thả ra, nới rộng:He let out a sigh of relief.
let up: giảm bớt (mưa, áp lực), ngừng nổ lực:The rain hasn't let up all day.
level off: ổn định, chững lại:Sales have leveled off after a period of growth.
level with: nói thật, thành thật: I need to level with you about something.
lie down: nằm xuống:I need to lie down for a bit.
light up with: rạng rỡ với: His face lit up with joy.
light up: thắp sáng, rạng rỡ:Her eyes lit up with joy.
line up for: xếp hàng vì: People lined up for the show.
line up with: khớp với: His ideas line up with mine.
line up: xếp hàng, sắp xếp:Please line up in single file.
live by: sống theo (nguyên tắc):She lives by a strict moral code.
live down: làm cho người khác quên đi (lỗi lầm):He'll never live down that embarrassing moment.
live for: sống vì điều gì: She lives for her children.
live it up: sống hưởng thụ: They lived it up in Paris.
live off: sống nhờ vào:He still lives off his parents.
live on: sống nhờ vào, sống sót bằng:It's hard to live on such a small salary.
live through: sống sót qua: They lived through the war.
live up to: xứng đáng với, đạt được kỳ vọng:He failed to live up to his parents' expectations.
live with: sống chung với, chấp nhận: I guess we have to live with the decision.
liven up: làm sôi động: Her jokes really livened up the party.
lock away: nhốt lại, cất giữ an toàn:He locked away all his valuables.
lock in: khóa (giá, thỏa thuận): We locked in the price before inflation hit.
lock out: không cho vào: I got locked out of my apartment last night.
log in/on: đăng nhập:You need to log in to your account.
log off/out: đăng xuất:Don't forget to log out when you're finished.
log off: đăng xuất: Don’t forget to log off after using the computer.
log on/in: đăng nhập: You need to log on to access the system.
look after: chăm sóc:Can you look after my dog while I'm away?
look ahead to: mong chờ, lên kế hoạch: We’re looking ahead to the next quarter.
look ahead: nhìn về phía trước, lên kế hoạch:It's important to look ahead and plan for the future.
look around: nhìn quanh:Let's look around the city.
look at: nhìn vào, xem xét:Please look at this picture.
look back on: hồi tưởng lại: I often look back on my childhood with fondness.
look back: nhìn lại quá khứ:When I look back, I realize how much I've changed.
look down on: coi thường:Don't look down on others.
look down upon: khinh thường: Don’t look down upon others.
look for: tìm kiếm:What are you looking for?
look forward to: mong chờ:I'm looking forward to seeing you.
look in on: ghé thăm ai để kiểm tra: I’ll look in on grandma on my way home.
look in: ghé qua, kiểm tra nhanh:I'll look in on the kids before I leave.
look into: điều tra, xem xét:We need to look into this problem.
look on: đứng nhìn, xem như:We can't just look on while this is happening.
look out for: chú ý, để ý: Look out for pickpockets.
look out: cẩn thận, cảnh giác:Look out! A car is coming.
look over: xem qua, kiểm tra:Can you look over my essay?
look through: đọc lướt qua, xem qua:I quickly looked through the report.
look to: trông cậy; hướng đến: They looked to him for leadership.
look up to: kính trọng:He really looks up to his older brother.
look up: tra cứu, cải thiện, ghé thăm:You can look up the word in a dictionary.
loosen up: thư giãn, nới lỏng:You need to loosen up a bit.
lounge around: lông bông, lười nhác: We lounged around the house all day.
low on: thiếu hụt: We're running low on milk.
luck into: gặp may mắn bất ngờ: He lucked into a great deal.
luck out on: gặp may mắn (mong đợi): We lucked out on the weather.
luck out: gặp may mắn (ngoài mong đợi):We really lucked out with the weather.
make after: đuổi theo:The police made after the thief.
make away with: cuỗm đi, đánh cắp:The burglars made away with all the jewelry.
make do with: tạm dùng: We'll have to make do with what we have.
make do: xoay sở, tạm dùng:We'll have to make do with what we have.
make for: tiến về phía, gây ra:The bad weather made for a difficult journey.
make good: hoàn thành; đạt được thành công: He made good on his promise.
make into: biến thành:They made the old garage into an apartment.
make of: hiểu, nghĩ về: What do you make of her idea?
make off with: chạy trốn với cái gì: The thief made off with my purse.
make off: bỏ trốn:The thieves made off with the stolen jewels.
make out: nhận ra, hiểu, giả vờ:I can't make out what you're saying.
make over: thay đổi, chuyển nhượng:She wants to make over her entire house.
make up for: bù đắp cho:He tried to make up for his mistake.
make up: bịa chuyện, làm hòa, trang điểm, bù đắp:They always make up after an argument.
mark down: giảm giá, đánh dấu:The store marked down the winter coats.
mark out: đánh dấu: Mark out the area with chalk.
mark up: tăng giá, đánh dấu lỗi:The shop marked up the prices before the sale.
measure up: đạt tiêu chuẩn: He doesn’t measure up to expectations.
meet up: gặp gỡ (theo kế hoạch): Let’s meet up at the café at 5.
mess about/around: lộn xộn, đùa giỡn:Stop messing around and do your work.
mess around/about: làm việc gì vụng về; lãng phí thời gian: Stop messing around and do your work.
mess up: làm hỏng: I messed up the project.
mess with: đụng vào (nguy hiểm): Don’t mess with electricity.
miss out on: bỏ lỡ: Don’t miss out on the chance.
miss out: bỏ lỡ: Don’t miss out on this chance!
mix in: trộn vào (nhóm, tập thể): She tried to mix in with the new class.
mix up with: liên quan rắc rối; nhầm lẫn ai: He got mixed up with a bad crowd.
mix up: trộn lẫn, nhầm lẫn:I always mix up their names.
move away from: rời khỏi: She moved away from the city.
move forward with: tiến hành: Let’s move forward with the plan.
move in on: tiếp cận (để giành lợi thế): The company is moving in on new markets.
move in: chuyển vào:We're moving in next month.
move on: tiếp tục, di chuyển:Let's move on to the next topic.
move out: chuyển ra:They decided to move out of the city.
move over: dịch sang một bên:Can you move over a bit?
mull on: suy nghĩ kỹ: I need time to mull on it.
mull over: suy nghĩ kỹ, nghiền ngẫm:I need some time to mull over the offer.
nail down: xác định rõ: Let’s nail down the date.
narrow down: thu hẹp (phạm vi lựa chọn):We need to narrow down the list of candidates.
nod off: ngủ gật: I nodded off in the meeting.
nose about/around: tò mò tìm hiểu:He was nosing around in my personal files.
nose around: dòm ngó; tò mò: Stop nosing around my stuff!
open out: mở rộng, trải ra, nói chuyện cởi mở:The road began to open out into fields.
open up to: mở lòng: He finally opened up to me.
open up: mở ra, bắt đầu kinh doanh:A new shop is opening up down the street.
opt for: lựa chọn:She opted for the healthier option.
opt in: đồng ý tham gia: You have to opt in to the program.
opt out of: chọn không tham gia: He opted out of the school trip.
opt out: rút khỏi, không tham gia:You can opt out of the mailing list at any time.
own up to: thú nhận: He owned up to the mistake.
own up: thú nhận:No one would own up to breaking the window.
pack away: cất đi: Pack away your toys!
pack in: ngừng làm, nhồi nhét:He decided to pack in his job.
pack up: gói ghém đồ đạc, ngừng hoạt động:It's time to pack up and go home.
pad out: làm dài thêm (văn bản): She padded out her essay with extra examples.
pass around: truyền tay nhau: Pass the book around.
pass away: qua đời:His grandmother passed away peacefully.
pass by: đi ngang qua:A police car just passed by.
pass down to: truyền lại: This story was passed down to me.
pass down: truyền lại: These tales were passed down.
pass for: bị nhầm là, được coi là:He could easily pass for a lawyer.
pass off as: giả mạo: He passed off fake coins as real.
pass off: diễn ra, được coi là: The protest passed off peacefully.
pass on: chuyển tiếp, qua đời, bỏ qua:Please pass on my message to him.
pass out: ngất xỉu, phân phát:He passed out from the heat.
pass over: bỏ qua, không chú ý đến:She was passed over for promotion.
pass up: bỏ qua, từ chối:I couldn't pass up such a good opportunity.
patch things up: hàn gắn: They patched things up after the fight.
patch up: vá lại, hàn gắn (quan hệ):They managed to patch up their differences.
pay back: trả lại tiền, trả đũa:I'll pay back the loan next month.
pay down: trả bớt nợ: We’re paying down our mortgage.
pay for: trả tiền cho, chịu hậu quả:You'll pay for what you did!
pay off for: có lợi, xứng đáng: Hard work pays off for those who try.
pay off: trả hết nợ, thành công:All her hard work finally paid off.
pay up: trả tiền đầy đủ: Pay up or get out.
peg out: phơi quần áo, kiệt sức:I need to peg out the washing.
pep up: làm cho ai năng động hơn: Coffee always peps me up in the morning.
perk up: trở nên tươi tỉnh, thay đổi tích cực: She perked up after coffee.
peter out: cạn dần, yếu dần rồi biến mất:The storm eventually petered out.
phase in: đưa vào từng bước:The new system will be phased in gradually.
phase out: loại bỏ dần:Old computers are being phased out.
pick apart: soi mói, phân tích: Critics picked the movie apart.
pick at: ăn ít, gẩy nhẹ, soi mói: He just picked at his food.
pick on: bắt nạt, quấy rối:Why are you always picking on him?
pick out: chọn ra, nhận ra:Can you pick out my car in the parking lot?
pick over: chọn lựa kỹ càng: She picked over the apples before buying.
pick up on: chú ý đến, tiếp thu nhanh: Did you pick up on her tone?
pick up: nhặt lên, đón, học được, bắt đầu lại:Can you pick up some milk on your way home?
piece together: ghép lại; hiểu dần: We pieced together the puzzle slowly.
pig out: ăn ngấu nghiến: We pigged out on pizza.
pile on: dồn dập: The pressure is piling on.
pile up: chất đống:The work started to pile up.
pin down: xác định rõ, ghim chặt:It's hard to pin down the exact cause of the problem.
pitch in: đóng góp, giúp đỡ: Everyone pitched in to clean up.
pitch up: đến nơi (bất ngờ): He pitched up late.
plan ahead: lên kế hoạch trước: It’s important to plan ahead for emergencies.
plan out: lên kế hoạch chi tiết: They planned out the whole vacation.
play along with: giả vờ đồng ý: I’ll play along with the plan.
play along: giả vờ hợp tác:I decided to play along with their game.
play around: đùa giỡn, thử nghiệm:He likes to play around with new ideas.
play at: giả vờ: What are you playing at?
play down: làm giảm nhẹ: He played down his achievements.
play into: hỗ trợ vô tình; giúp ai đó thực hiện kế hoạch xấu: His actions played into the enemy's hands.
play off (against): đối phó bằng cách tạo mâu thuẫn:He tried to play one manager off against the other.
play on: lợi dụng, tận dụng:The politician tried to play on people's fears.
play out: diễn ra; lộ diện: Let’s see how things play out.
play up: hư hỏng, làm quá:My knee has been playing up all week.
please with: hài lòng về: He was pleased with his exam results.
plough on: tiếp tục kiên trì:Despite the difficulties, they ploughed on.
plow through: cày qua, đọc/nghiền nhanh: I plowed through the paperwork.
point out to: chỉ ra cho ai: I pointed out the error to her.
point out: chỉ ra:He pointed out the flaws in the argument.
point to: chỉ ra: All evidence points to him.
point up: nhấn mạnh: The incident points up the need for safety measures.
polish off: hoàn tất nhanh: He polished off his meal in minutes.
pop in: ghé qua nhanh: I’ll pop in after lunch.
pop out: nhúc nhích; xuất hiện đột ngột, đi ra ngoài nhanh: A rabbit popped out of the bush.
pop up: hiện lên bất ngờ: Ads keep popping up on my screen.
pore over: nghiên cứu kỹ, đọc kỹ:She spent hours poring over the documents.
pour in: đổ về: Complaints poured in.
press on: tiếp tục làm: We pressed on despite the rain.
primp up: trau chuốt về hình thức: She primped up before the date.
prop up: chống đỡ, hỗ trợ:The government had to prop up the failing industry.
pull ahead: vượt lên: She pulled ahead in the final lap.
pull apart: kéo ra, chia rẽ:They were pulled apart by security.
pull away: rời đi, kéo ra:The train slowly pulled away from the station.
pull back: rút lui; giữ lại: The army pulled back from the border.
pull down: phá huỷ, làm nản lòng: They pulled down the old building.
pull in: đi vào (ga, bến), kiếm tiền:The train pulled in to the station.
pull off: thành công, tháo ra:They managed to pull off a difficult victory.
pull on: kéo lên, mặc vào:He pulled on his coat and left.
pull out: rút khỏi, nhổ (răng):The company decided to pull out of the market.
pull over: tấp vào lề: The cop told me to pull over.
pull through: vượt qua (khó khăn, bệnh tật):We hope she will pull through.
pull together: hợp tác, đoàn kết:We need to pull together to finish this project.
pull up: dừng lại (xe), kéo lên:The car pulled up outside my house.
pump up: bơm phồng; tạo cảm hứng: The music pumped up the crowd.
push ahead: tiếp tục tiến lên: Let’s push ahead with the plan.
push around: sai bảo, bắt nạt:Don't let him push you around.
push aside: gạt sang: She pushed aside her doubts.
push back: phản đối: They pushed back against the idea.
push for: đòi hỏi, thúc đẩy:They are pushing for stricter environmental laws.
push on: tiếp tục tiến lên:We must push on despite the obstacles.
push through: thúc đẩy: They pushed the bill through parliament.
put about: lan truyền tin đồn, làm lo lắng/bối rối: Someone's been putting about nasty rumors.
put across: truyền đạt, giải thích:He finds it hard to put across his ideas.
put aside: để dành, gạt sang: She puts aside money every month.
put away for: tiết kiệm: I’m putting money away for a car.
put away: cất đi, để dành:Please put away your toys.
put back: đặt lại chỗ cũ, hoãn lại:Don't forget to put back the book.
put down for: ghi danh, đặt cọc: Put me down for the trip.
put down to: quy cho là: I put his mood down to stress.
put down: đặt xuống, ghi lại, đàn áp:Please put down your bags.
put forward: đề xuất: He put forward a new idea.
put in for: nộp đơn xin: I put in for a promotion.
put in: đặt vào, lắp đặt, dành thời gian:We need to put in a new window.
put off by: bị làm cho mất hứng: I was put off by the smell.
put off: trì hoãn, làm mất hứng, làm ai đó không thích:Don't put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
put on: mặc vào, bật (thiết bị), tăng cân, trình diễn (kịch), giả vờ:Put on your coat, it's cold outside.
put out: dập tắt (lửa), làm phiền:The firefighters quickly put out the fire.
put someone down: làm nhục: Don’t put others down.
put through: kết nối điện thoại, khiến/giúp ai trải qua:Can you put me through to the manager?
put together: kết hợp; tạo ra: She put together a great team.
put up for: đề cử, rao bán: The house was put up for sale.
put up with: chịu đựng:I can't put up with this noise anymore.
put up: dựng/treo lên, cho ở nhờ, đề cử, tăng giá:We need to put up a tent.
queue up: xếp hàng:People were queuing up to buy tickets.
quiet down: yên lặng lại: Kids, quiet down!
quieten down: bớt ồn: The class quietened down when the teacher walked in.
quitter on: thoái lui: He’s a quitter — always gives up too soon.
rack up: tích lũy (điểm, nợ, thành tích), đạt được (thành công/thành tích): He racked up a lot of debt.
rail against: phản đối kịch liệt:He railed against the injustice of the system.
rake in: kiếm tiền dễ dàng, thu về (khoảng tiền lớn):They're raking in millions with their new product.
rant about: phàn nàn ầm ĩ về:He ranted about the poor customer service.
reach for: với lấy: He reached for the remote.
reach out to: liên lạc, giúp đỡ: She reached out to old friends for support.
reach out: vươn tới, liên lạc: We should reach out to new customers.
read back: đọc lại: Can you read back my number?
read into: suy diễn quá mức:Don't read too much into what he said.
read over: đọc kỹ: Read over the contract.
read up on: đọc thêm, nghiên cứu: I need to read up on climate change.
reason with: thuyết phục, tranh luận: I tried to reason with her.
reckon on: dự đoán: We hadn’t reckoned on such bad weather.
reckon with: cân nhắc (điều gì có thể xảy ra): The company failed to reckon with the new competition.
reek of: có mùi nặng; có dấu hiệu rõ rệt: The room reeked of cigarette smoke.
reel in: thu hút; cuốn vào: The company reeled in a lot of new customers.
reel off: đọc vanh vách, liệt kê nhanh:She could reel off all the capitals of Europe.
reel out: kéo dài (dây), liệt kê nhiều: He reeled out the fishing line carefully.
reel over: nghiêng người: She reeled over after standing up too quickly.
refer to: đề cập đến, ám chỉ:He often refers to his notes.
reflect on: suy ngẫm về: He took a moment to reflect on his past decisions.
rely on: dựa vào, tin cậy vào:You can rely on him to do a good job.
remember to: nhớ phải làm gì: Remember to lock the door when you leave.
reopen up: mở cửa trở lại; bắt đầu lại: The restaurant will reopen up next week.
resort to: phải dùng đến:We had to resort to drastic measures.
rest on: phụ thuộc vào: Our hope rests on you.
retire from: nghỉ hưu; rút lui: She retired from teaching after 40 years.
ride off: cưỡi ngựa/lái xe đi: He rode off into the sunset.
ride on: phụ thuộc vào (để thành công), trêu chọc: Our success rides on this deal.
ride out: vượt qua (khó khăn):They managed to ride out the storm.
ring back: gọi điện lại: I’m busy now, I’ll ring you back later.
ring in: báo hiệu sự bắt đầu, gọi điện đến:Let's ring in the New Year.
ring off: cúp máy:She rung off abruptly.
ring out: vang vọng: A loud gunshot rang out in the distance.
rip into: chỉ trích mạnh: He ripped into the report.
rip off: lừa đảo, chặt chém:That shop really ripped me off.
rip out: xé ra; gỡ bỏ: He ripped out the old carpet.
rip up: xé ra từng mảnh: She ripped up the contract.
rise above: vượt lên: She rose above the criticism.
rise up against: nổi dậy: They rose up against oppression.
roll back: giảm giá, lùi lại: They rolled back the price.
roll in: đến ồ ạt (tiền), đến đông đảo:The money started to roll in.
roll out: ra mắt sản phẩm, triển khai:The company will roll out its new product next month.
roll over: lăn qua, đầu hàng: He rolled over in bed.
root around: lục lọi: He was rooting around in the drawer.
root for: ủng hộ, cổ vũ: I always root for the underdog.
root out: tìm ra và loại bỏ:We need to root out corruption.
rope in: lôi kéo, thuyết phục tham gia:They roped in all their friends to help.
rope into: lôi kéo: I was roped into helping.
round off: kết thúc nhẹ nhàng, làm tròn số: Let’s round off with a game.
round up: tập hợp, làm tròn lên:Let's round up the cattle.
rub in: xát vào, nhắc đi nhắc lại (điều khó chịu):Don't rub it in! I know I made a mistake.
rule out: loại trừ:We can't rule out the possibility of human error.
rule over: cai trị: The king ruled over the land.
run across: tình cờ gặp:I ran across an old friend at the market.
run after: đuổi theo:The dog ran after the cat.
run against: đối đầu với: He’s running against a strong opponent.
run along: đi chỗ khác: Run along now, kids!
run around: bận rộn chạy khắp nơi:I've been running around all day.
run away with: bỏ trốn với, thắng áp đảo (cuộc thi), lấn ác (cảm xúc, tưởng tượng): She ran away with the prize.
run away: chạy trốn:The child ran away from home.
run by: trình bày (để lấy ý kiến):Can I run this idea by you?
run down on: chỉ trích: She ran down on his efforts in front of everyone.
run down: tông phải (xe), nói xấu, hết pin, truy tìm:His car ran down the battery.
run for: tranh cử; chạy đua: He plans to run for president next year.
run in: tạm giam; làm nóng máy xe: He was run in by the police last night.
run into: tình cờ gặp, đâm vào:I ran into my ex-girlfriend yesterday.
run off with: bỏ trốn cùng, cuỗm đi:He ran off with all her savings.
run off: bỏ trốn, sao chép:The printer can run off 100 copies per minute.
run on: tiếp tục chạy: The engine runs on diesel.
run out of: hết, cạn kiệt:We've run out of milk.
run out on: bỏ rơi: He ran out on his family.
run out: hết sạch: We ran out of milk.
run over: cán qua, xem lại nhanh, tràn ra:The car accidentally ran over a squirrel.
run through: chạy qua, xem xét nhanh:Let's run through the plan once more.
run to: lên/đủ tới (số lượng), thuộc về: The costs ran to thousands of dollars.
run up against: đối mặt với:We ran up against a lot of opposition.
run up: chạy lên, tích lũy:She ran up a large bill.
run with: tiếp tục sử dụng:Let's run with that idea.
rush into: hấp tấp: Don’t rush into marriage.
rush off: vội vàng đi: I had to rush off to catch the last bus.
rust out: hoen gỉ; hỏng do lâu không dùng: The old tools rusted out in the shed.
saddle up: chuẩn bị (ngựa, xe…); sẵn sàng: Let’s saddle up and hit the trail.
saddle with: giao việc không mong muốn: I was saddled with the extra work.
sail on: tiếp tục di chuyển (tàu): The ship sailed on.
sail through: vượt qua dễ dàng:She sailed through her exams.
saturate in/with: ngấm đẫm: The sponge was saturated with water.
save up for: tiết kiệm cho: I'm saving up for a new bike.
save up: tiết kiệm:I'm saving up for a new car.
scale back: giảm quy mô:They had to scale back their plans.
scale down: giảm quy mô: The company scaled down its operations.
scale up: mở rộng: They scaled up production.
scan through: quét nhanh (văn bản): I scanned through the document for errors.
scope out: khảo sát, đánh giá:Let's scope out the area before we decide.
scrape by: xoay sở sống: We just scrape by each month.
scrape through: vượt qua sát nút: I scraped through the exam.
scrape together: gom góp được: They scraped together enough money for rent.
scrape up: kiếm được khó khăn: He scraped up some coins from the drawer.
screw up: làm hỏng: I really screwed up.
seal off: phong tỏa (khu vực): Police sealed off the area after the explosion.
see about: xem xét, giải quyết:I'll see about getting tickets for the concert.
see eye to eye: đồng thuận: We don't see eye to eye on this issue.
see off: tiễn đưa:We went to the airport to see off our friends.
see out: tiễn ra cửa:I'll see you out.
see through: nhìn thấu, giúp ai vượt qua khó khăn:I'll see you through this difficult time.
see to it: đảm bảo: Please see to it that the door is locked.
see to: lo liệu, đảm bảo:I'll see to the arrangements.
sell off: bán đổ bán tháo:The company had to sell off some assets.
sell out of: bán hết hàng: They sold out of tickets fast.
sell out to: phản bội vì tiền: He sold out to the enemy.
sell out: bán hết: The concert tickets sold out quickly.
send away: gửi đi nơi khác; trục xuất: He was sent away to boarding school.
send back: gửi trả lại: I sent the shoes back.
send for: triệu tập, yêu cầu gửi đến:We need to send for a doctor immediately.
send in: gửi nộp: Please send in your application by Monday.
send off: gửi đi, tiễn đưa:I'll send off the package tomorrow.
send out: phân phát, gửi đi:They sent out invitations to all their friends.
send up: chế giễu, bắt chước:The comedian sent up the politicians.
serve up: dọn món ăn:He served up a delicious meal.
set about: bắt đầu làm:He set about organizing his desk.
set apart: làm khác biệt: Her skills set her apart from the rest.
set aside: để dành, gạt bỏ:She sets aside some money every month for retirement.
set back: trì hoãn, tốn kém:The bad weather set back the construction.
set forth: trình bày: He set forth his opinion.
set in: bắt đầu (thời tiết xấu, bệnh):Winter has set in early this year.
set off: khởi hành, gây ra:We set off early in the morning.
set on: xúi giục; tấn công: He was set on by a gang in the alley.
set out: khởi hành, trình bày:They set out to explore the jungle.
set to: bắt tay hăng hái vào: They set to work without wasting time.
set up: thành lập, sắp xếp, gài bẫy:They decided to set up a new business.
settle down: ổn định: He finally settled down and got a job.
settle for: chấp nhận: I won’t settle for less.
settle in: ổn định chỗ ở: I’m still settling in.
settle into: quen với: I settled into my new job.
settle up: thanh toán xong: Let’s settle up the bill before we leave.
sew up: khâu lại; đảm bảo thành công: He sewed up the deal in just one meeting.
shake down: lạm quyền, vòi tiền: The gang shook down the shop owner for cash.
shake off: thoát khỏi (cảm giác, người theo): She tried to shake off the flu.
shake up: cải tổ; làm rung chuyển: The new CEO plans to shake up the company.
shape up: tiến bộ: You’d better shape up!
shoe out: đá ai ra ngoài: The teacher shoed the troublemakers out of class.
shoot down: bác bỏ: They shot down the proposal.
shoot up: tăng vọt: Prices have shot up.
shout down: la át tiếng: Protesters shouted him down.
show around: dẫn đi thăm:Let me show you around the house.
show off: khoe khoang:He loves to show off his new car.
show up: xuất hiện:He didn't show up for the meeting.
shrink from: tránh né việc khó: He doesn’t shrink from difficult decisions.
shrug off: coi nhẹ, gạt bỏ:She tried to shrug off the criticism.
shut down: đóng cửa, ngừng hoạt động:The factory shut down last week.
shut off: tắt (máy), ngắt:Don't forget to shut off the lights.
shut out: ngăn chặn; loại ra ngoài, không nghe/không thấy: We were shut out of the final match.
shut up: ngừng nói (thô): Shut up and listen to me!
shy away from: né tránh: She shies away from conflict.
sideline from: loại khỏi (đội bóng…): He was sidelined from the team due to injury.
sign in/up: đăng nhập; đăng ký: Please sign in before the session starts.
sign off on: phê duyệt: The manager signed off on the plan.
sign off: kết thúc, phê duyệt: Let’s sign off for today.
sign on: đồng ý tham gia, có tên trên, bắt đầu làm việc (công việc mới): He signed on to the military service.
sign out: đăng xuất: Don’t forget to sign out of your account.
sign up: đăng ký: I signed up for the yoga class.
single out: chọn riêng ra:She was singled out for praise.
sink in: hiểu ra, thấm thía:It took a while for the news to sink in.
sit around: ngồi chơi, không làm gì:Don't just sit around, do something productive.
sit back: ngồi thư giãn:Just sit back and enjoy the show.
sit down: ngồi xuống:Please sit down.
sit in for: làm thay: I’ll sit in for her.
sit in: tham dự, biểu tình ngồi:She often sits in on lectures.
sit through: ngồi chịu đựng hết: I sat through the boring lecture.
sit up: ngồi thẳng, thức khuya:He had to sit up all night studying.
size up: đánh giá, ước lượng:He sized up the situation quickly.
skip out: trốn tránh trách nhiệm: He skipped out on paying the bill.
slack off: lười biếng: He slacked off all semester.
sleep in: ngủ nướng:I love to sleep in on weekends.
sleep on: suy nghĩ thêm:Let me sleep on it and I'll tell you tomorrow.
sleep over: ngủ lại nhà ai đó:Can I sleep over at your house tonight?
sleep through: ngủ quên: I slept through the alarm.
slip away: trôi đi, lặng lẽ rời: Time just slipped away.
slip out: lỡ miệng: It slipped out without thinking.
slip up: mắc lỗi:He slipped up and revealed the secret.
slow down: chậm lại:Please slow down, you're driving too fast.
slow up: làm chậm lại: Don’t slow up now!
smarten up: ăn mặc chỉn chu; cải thiện: You need to smarten up for the interview.
smooth out: làm mượt, giải quyết êm: Let’s smooth out the wrinkles.
smooth over: làm dịu đi (tình hình):He tried to smooth over the awkward situation.
snap at: cằn nhằn, gắt gỏng: He snapped at me.
snap out of: thoát khỏi: Snap out of your mood.
snow under: bị ngập (trong công việc):I'm snowed under with work.
snuff out: dập tắt: The wind snuffed out the candle.
soak in: ngấm vào: Let the sauce soak in.
soak up: hấp thụ, tận hưởng/đấm mình trong: I soaked up the atmosphere.
sort out: giải quyết, sắp xếp:We need to sort out this problem.
sort through: phân loại: Let’s sort through the papers.
sound out: thăm dò ý kiến:I'll sound out his opinion before making a decision.
space out: mơ màng: I spaced out in class.
speak for: đại diện cho, nói thay cho:I can't speak for anyone else.
speak out: nói thẳng, công khai:She decided to speak out against injustice.
speak up for: bênh vực: She spoke up for the underdog.
speak up: nói to lên:Can you speak up, please? I can't hear you.
spell out: giải thích rõ ràng, chi tiết:Can you spell out exactly what you mean?
spell something out: giải thích chi tiết: Spell it out for me.
spin off: tách ra, tạo ra (sản phẩm phụ):The new company was a spin-off from the larger corporation.
splash out: tiêu tiền xả láng:They splashed out on a luxury vacation.
split up: chia tay; phân chia: They split up after five years together.
sponge off: ăn bám: He’s been sponging off his parents for years.
spread out: trải rộng: The city spread out along the coast.
spring up: mọc lên nhanh chóng: New buildings keep springing up.
square off: đối đầu: The boxers squared off.
square up: trả tiền, đối đầu: He squared up to the bully.
squeeze in: chen vào, sắp xếp thời gian: I’ll squeeze you in at 3 PM.
stack up: chồng chất: Problems stacked up.
stake out: theo dõi (cảnh sát): The cops staked out the building.
stand aside: đứng sang bên: Please stand aside and let them pass.
stand by: ủng hộ, chờ đợi:I will stand by you no matter what.
stand down: từ chức, rút lui:The minister was forced to stand down.
stand for: viết tắt của, tượng trưng cho:What does UN stand for?
stand in for: thay thế:Can you stand in for me at the meeting?
stand in: thay thế: I’ll stand in for her.
stand out: nổi bật:Her talent makes her stand out from the rest.
stand over: giám sát chặt: He stood over me as I worked.
stand up for: bảo vệ, ủng hộ:You should always stand up for what you believe in.
stand up to: đương đầu với: She stood up to her boss and demanded respect.
stand up: đứng dậy:Please stand up when the teacher enters.
start in on: bắt đầu chỉ trích: She started in on me.
start off: bắt đầu: She started off as a waitress.
start over: bắt đầu lại: Let’s start over from scratch.
stay away: tránh xa:Stay away from dangerous areas.
stay behind: ở lại sau: I stayed behind to help.
stay in: ở nhà:I'm tired, so I'll stay in tonight.
stay out: ở ngoài, không về nhà: He stayed out all night.
stay up: thức khuya:I had to stay up late to finish my work.
step aside: lùi sang một bên, nhường chỗ:He decided to step aside and let a younger person lead.
step back: lùi lại, nhìn tổng thể: Step back and assess the situation.
step down: từ chức:The CEO decided to step down.
step in: can thiệp:The government had to step in to resolve the crisis.
step off: bước xuống: He stepped off the train carefully.
step on: đạp lên; đè áp: Don’t step on the grass!
step out of line: hành xử sai quy định: He stepped out of line at work.
step out: ra ngoài một chút, nghỉ hưu: I need to step out for a phone call.
step up: tăng cường, tăng tốc:We need to step up our efforts.
stick around for: nán lại để chờ: Stick around for the surprise.
stick around: nán lại: Stick around, the fun's just starting!
stick out: nổi bật, lộ ra, chịu dựng (khó khăn): His red hair really sticks out.
stick to something: bám sát: Stick to the plan!
stick to: tuân thủ, bám vào:You should stick to your promises.
stick together: giữ nhau; đoàn kết: Let’s stick together no matter what happens.
stick up for: bảo vệ, ủng hộ: He always sticks up for his friends.
stick with: tiếp tục với, kiên trì:Let's stick with this plan.
stir up: khuấy động: The speech stirred up strong emotions.
stock up on: tích trữ: We stocked up on food before the storm.
stock up: tích trữ: We need to stock up on supplies.
stop by: ghé qua:I'll stop by your office later.
storm out of: lao ra khỏi (tức giận): He stormed out of the meeting.
storm out: lao ra (giận dữ): He stormed out of the meeting.
straighten up: dọn dẹp; ngồi thẳng: Straighten up your room before guests arrive.
streamline: làm cho gọn nhẹ, hiệu quả: We need to streamline our processes.
stress out: căng thẳng: Don’t stress out over it.
strike back: phản công: The army struck back immediately
strike up: bắt đầu cuộc trò chuyện, bản nhạc: She struck up a conversation with a stranger.
string along: dẫn dắt ai (thường lừa dối): He strung her along with false promises.
strip away: loại bỏ dần: They stripped away the old wallpaper.
strip off: cởi đồ; bóc lớp ngoài: He stripped off his wet clothes.
strip out: tháo rời nội thất, loại bỏ: They stripped out the old cabinets before remodeling.
stroke out: loại khỏi giải đấu: He was stroked out in the semifinals.
stumble across/on/upon: tình cờ tìm thấy:I stumbled upon an old photograph.
stumble on: tình cờ phát hiện: I stumbled on a hidden room
suck in: lôi kéo, bị lừa, hóp vào: Don’t get sucked in by his charm.
suck it up: chịu đựng: Stop complaining and suck it up!
suck out: hút ra hết: The vacuum sucked out all the dust.
suck up (to): nịnh bợ:He's always sucking up to the boss.
suck up to: nịnh hót (không thành thật): He’s always sucking up to the boss.
suck up: nịnh hót: Stop sucking up to the boss!
suddenly out: vụt ra bất ngờ: He suddenly popped out of nowhere.
sum up: tóm tắt:To sum up, the main point is...
summon up: tập hợp; khơi gợi: She summoned up the courage to speak.
superimpose on: đặt thêm lên; chồng chất: The image was superimposed on the background.
supply with: cung cấp: The company supplied us with free samples.
sure up: củng cố: The team shored up their defense before the match.
swallow up: chiếm hết (tài nguyên): The expenses swallowed up all our savings.
swear by: rất tin vào, thề rằng rất tốt:I swear by this brand of coffee.
sweat out: chịu đựng (sức nóng, khó khăn):We had to sweat out the last few minutes of the game.
sweep aside: gạt bỏ, bỏ qua:He swept aside all objections.
sweep through: lan nhanh: The rumor swept through the town.
swing by: ghé qua nhanh:I'll swing by your place later.
switch about: thay đổi vị trí: They kept switching about their seats during the show.
switch around: đổi vị trí: Let’s switch the chairs around.
switch off: tắt (thiết bị, cảm giác): He switched off during the boring lecture.
switch on: bật: She switched on the light.
switch over to: chuyển sang: We switched over to solar power.
switch over: chuyển sang: They switched over to a new provider.
swot up on: ôn tập, học gấp: He’s swotting up on math for the test.
tag along: đi theo: My little brother tagged along.
take after someone: giống ai (ngoại hình, tính cách): She takes after her dad.
take after: giống ai đó (về tính cách, ngoại hình):She takes after her mother.
take apart: tháo rời:He likes to take apart mechanical things.
take away from: làm giảm giá trị: That attitude takes away from your effort.
take away: mang đi, trừ đi, rút ra bài học:Can I take away this food?
take back: rút lại (lời nói), trả lại:I take back what I said.
take care of: chăm sóc: I'll take care of the rest.
take charge of: đảm nhận: She took charge of the meeting.
take down someone: đánh bại: He took down his opponent.
take down: ghi lại, hạ xuống:Please take down these notes.
take in: lừa gạt, hấp thụ, hiểu:She was completely taken in by his charming smile.
take it out on: trút giận lên: Don’t take it out on me!
take off: cất cánh, thành công, nghỉ phép:The new product really took off.
take on: đảm nhận, thuê mướn, đối đầu, có thêm tính chất:He's willing to take on more responsibilities.
take out on: trút giận lên:Don't take your anger out on me.
take out: đưa ra ngoài, nhổ (răng), mời đi chơi:Let's take out the trash.
take over: tiếp quản:The new manager will take over next week.
take to: bắt đầu thích, hình thành thói quen:She immediately took to her new dog.
take up: bắt đầu một sở thích, chiếm (không gian, thời gian):He decided to take up painting.
talk about: nói về:Let's talk about your plans.
talk around: thuyết phục:I tried to talk him around to my point of view.
talk back: cãi lại:Don't talk back to your elders.
talk down to: nói chuyện kiểu bề trên, coi thường:Don't talk down to me!
talk into: thuyết phục ai làm gì:She talked me into buying a new car.
talk out of: thuyết phục ai không làm gì:I tried to talk him out of quitting.
talk over with: thảo luận với ai: I’ll talk it over with my team.
talk over: thảo luận kỹ:Let's talk over the details later.
tamper with: can thiệp vào, làm giả mạo:Someone has tampered with the evidence.
tap into: khai thác: We need to tap into new markets.
team up (with): hợp tác với:We decided to team up for the project.
team up with: hợp tác với: Let's team up on this project.
team up: hợp tác: We teamed up for the project.
tear away: rời khỏi (miễn cưỡng): I couldn’t tear myself away.
tear down: phá hủy, dỡ bỏ:They are going to tear down the old building.
tear into: chỉ trích dữ dội, ăn ngấu nghiến:He tore into his critics.
tear up: xé nát:She tore up the letter.
tell apart: phân biệt:It's hard to tell them apart.
tell off: mắng mỏ:The teacher told him off for being late.
tell on: mách lẻo:Don't tell on me!
test out: thử nghiệm: We need to test out the new software.
think about: nghĩ về:I'm thinking about changing jobs.
think ahead: nghĩ trước, lên kế hoạch: Think ahead before acting.
think back on: nhớ lại: I think back on my school days often.
think back to: nhớ lại: Think back to your first day.
think back: nhớ lại:If I think back, I can remember.
think over: cân nhắc kỹ:I need some time to think over your proposal.
think through: suy nghĩ kỹ lưỡng:You need to think through the consequences.
think up: nghĩ ra:He always thinks up new ideas.
throw around: ném lung tung, nói lung tung, phung phí (tiền, từ ngữ): Don’t throw words like that around.
throw away: vứt đi:Don't throw away those old newspapers.
throw in the towel: bỏ cuộc: He threw in the towel early.
throw in: ném vào, thêm vào (miễn phí):They threw in a free dessert.
throw off: loại bỏ: She threw off her coat.
throw out: vứt bỏ, đuổi ra:I need to throw out these old clothes.
throw up: nôn mửa:He felt sick and threw up.
tick off: làm ai bực mình: That really ticks me off!
tide over: giúp vượt qua (khó khăn tạm thời):Can you lend me some money to tide me over until payday?
tidy up: dọn dẹp: I need to tidy up the kitchen.
tie in with: khớp với: It ties in with our strategy.
tie up: buộc chặt, bận rộn:I'm a bit tied up at the moment.
tighten up: thắt chặt, siết chặt:We need to tighten up security.
tip off: báo tin, mách nước:The police were tipped off about the robbery.
tone down: làm dịu đi, giảm cường độ:You need to tone down your language.
top off: kết thúc bằng, thêm vào cuối:He topped off the meal with a delicious dessert.
touch base: liên lạc: Let’s touch base next week.
touch down: hạ cánh: The plane touched down safely.
touch on: đề cập sơ qua:The speaker only touched on the subject briefly.
toy with: đùa giỡn với ý tưởng: I’m toying with the idea of quitting.
track back: lần lại dấu vết: They tracked back the email source.
track down: truy tìm, tìm ra:The police are trying to track down the suspect.
trade in: đổi cũ lấy mới: I traded in my old phone.
trade off: đánh đổi: There’s always a trade-off.
trip over: vấp: She tripped over the rug.
trip up: gây vấp ngã: The question tripped me up.
try on: thử (quần áo), thử nghiệm (ý tưởng, thái độ):Can I try on these shoes?
try out: thử nghiệm:Let's try out the new system.
tuck away: cất giấu, giấu đi, nằm khuất trong một nơi:She tucked away some money for a rainy day.
tune out: phớt lờ: He tuned out during the lecture.
turn against: chống lại: They turned against their leader.
turn around: quay lại:He turned around and walked away.
turn away from: quay lưng, không ủng hộ: They turned away from violence.
turn away: quay đi, từ chối:They had to turn away many people due to lack of space.
turn back: quay lại:It's too late to turn back now.
turn down: từ chối, vặn nhỏ (âm lượng):She turned down the job offer.
turn in: đi ngủ, nộp:I'm tired, I'm going to turn in.
turn in: đi ngủ; giao nộp: I’m tired, I’ll turn in early tonight.
turn into: biến thành:The caterpillar turned into a butterfly.
turn off: tắt (đèn, máy):Please turn off the lights when you leave.
turn on: bật (đèn, máy):Can you turn on the TV?
turn out: hóa ra, sản xuất, tập hợp:A large crowd turned out for the concert.
turn over: lật lại, doanh thu, chuyển giao, suy nghĩ kỹ về ý tưởng:The company has a high annual turnover.
turn to: nhờ cậy, chuyển sang:She has no one to turn to for help.
turn up: xuất hiện (bất ngờ/ko đúng giờ), vặn to, tìm thấy:He didn't turn up for the meeting.
use up: dùng hết:We've used up all the sugar.
usher in: mở ra, dẫn dắt:The invention of the internet ushered in a new era.
wait around: chờ đợi không mục đích: I waited around for hours.
wait on: phục vụ: The waiter waited on us quickly.
wait up for: thức chờ: Don’t wait up for me.
wait up: chờ ai đó (thức khuya để chờ):Don't wait up for me.
wake up to: nhận ra điều gì: He woke up to the truth.
wake up: thức dậy:What time did you wake up this morning?
walk away from: rời bỏ: She walked away from the deal.
walk away with: thắng dễ dàng, đánh cắp: She walked away with the prize.
walk away: bỏ đi, rời đi:He just walked away without saying anything.
walk in on: bước vào (bất ngờ): I walked in on them arguing.
walk in: đi vào:He just walked in without knocking.
walk off with: cuỗm đi, lấy đi:He walked off with the prize.
walk out on: bỏ rơi ai: He walked out on his family.
walk out: bỏ đi, đình công:The employees decided to walk out.
ward off: tránh xa, đẩy lùi:She wore a charm to ward off evil spirits.
warm to: bắt đầu thích: I’m warming to the idea.
warm up to: bắt đầu thích: She warmed up to the idea.
warm up: khởi động, làm nóng:You should warm up before exercising.
wash away: cuốn trôi:The floodwaters washed away the bridge.
wash out: bị loại (do yếu): He washed out of pilot school.
wash over: tràn ngập (cảm xúc): Sadness washed over her.
wash up: rửa bát, trôi dạt vào bờ:I'll wash up after dinner.
waste away: gầy mòn, suy mòn:He seemed to be wasting away.
watch out for: cảnh giác với:Watch out for pickpockets in crowded areas.
watch out: cẩn thận:Watch out for falling rocks!
watch over: trông nom: Can you watch over the kids?
wave aside: gạt bỏ, xua đi:He waved aside her concerns.
wean off: cai dần: He’s trying to wean off caffeine.
wear off: mất tác dụng, phai nhạt:The effects of the medicine will soon wear off.
wear out: làm mòn, làm kiệt sức:My shoes are completely worn out.
weed out: loại bỏ: We need to weed out weak candidates.
weigh in: tham gia (cuộc tranh luận), cân trọng lượng:He weighed in with his opinion.
weigh on: đè nặng lên (tâm trí):The decision weighed on his mind.
whip out: rút ra nhanh: He whipped out his phone.
whip up: chuẩn bị nhanh (thức ăn), khuấy động:She can whip up a meal in minutes.
win over: thuyết phục:He tried to win over the skeptical audience.
wind down: thư giãn, giảm tốc độ, dần kết thúc:It's good to wind down after a stressful day.
wind up with: kết thúc với: He wound up with nothing.
wind up: kết thúc, lên dây cót:Let's wind up the meeting.
wipe out: xóa sổ, làm kiệt sức:The disease wiped out the population.
work around: tìm cách giải quyết mà không trực tiếp đối mặt:We need to work around this obstacle.
work in: xen vào, kết hợp, làm trong lĩnh vực:I'll try to work in some exercise.
work off: tiêu hao, trả nợ:He needs to work off some stress.
work on: cố gắng cải thiện: She’s working on her English skills.
work out for: thành công: It worked out for the best.
work out: tập thể dục, giải quyết, tính toán:I try to work out three times a week.
work toward: hướng đến: We’re working toward a solution.
wrap around: quấn quanh: She wrapped her scarf around her neck.
wrap up in: bận tâm quá mức: Don’t get too wrapped up in it.
wrap up: gói lại, kết thúc:Let's wrap up the project by Friday.
write down: ghi lại:Please write down your name and address.
write off as: xem như là: He wrote it off as bad luck.
write off: xóa sổ, bỏ đi (nợ), xem nhẹ:The company had to write off a lot of bad debts.
write out: viết ra: Write out your answers.
write up: viết báo cáo: I need to write up the results.
yell at: quát mắng: He yelled at me.
zero in on: tập trung vào:The police are zeroing in on the suspect.
zero out: xóa số: The balance was zeroed out.
zip by: trôi nhanh: The weekend zipped by.
zip down: kéo khóa xuống nhanh: He zipped down his jacket.
zip through: làm nhanh: I zipped through the test.
zip up: kéo khóa lên: Zip up your jacket.
zone in on: tập trung vào: She zoned in on the solution.
zone out: mất tập trung, mơ màng:I sometimes zone out during long lectures.
zoom in on: phóng to, tập trung vào: Zoom in on that part.
zoom in: phóng to:Can you zoom in on that part of the picture?
zoom out: nhìn tổng thể: Zoom out and consider the big picture.
zoom past: vụt qua: The car zoomed past us.